README.md, before:

[![REUSE status](https://api.reuse.software/badge/github.com/kyma-project/istio)](https://api.reuse.software/info/github.com/kyma-project/istio)
# Istio

## What is Istio

<img src="/docs/assets/istio-whitelogo-bluebackground-framed.svg" alt="Istio logo" style="height: 100px; width:100px;"/>

Istio is an open-source service mesh that provides a uniform way to manage, connect, and secure microservices. It helps to manage traffic, enhance security capabilities, and provide telemetry data for understanding service behavior. Read the [Istio documentation](https://istio.io/latest/) to learn more.

## Kyma Istio Operator

Kyma Istio Operator is a component of the Kyma runtime that handles the management and configuration of Istio Service Mesh. Within Kyma Istio Operator, [Istio Controller](/docs/user/00-overview/00-10-overview-istio-controller.md) is responsible for installing, uninstalling, and upgrading Istio.

## Install Kyma Istio Operator and Istio from the latest release

### Prerequisites

- Access to a Kubernetes (v1.24 or higher) cluster
- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/)

### Procedure

1. To install Istio, you must install the latest version of Kyma Istio Operator and Istio CRD first. Run:

   ```bash
   kubectl apply -f https://github.com/kyma-project/istio/releases/latest/download/istio-manager.yaml
   ```

2. To get Istio installed, apply the default Istio CR:

   ```bash
   kubectl apply -f https://github.com/kyma-project/istio/releases/latest/download/istio-default-cr.yaml
   ```

   You should get a result similar to this example:

   ```bash
   istio.operator.kyma-project.io/default created
   ```

3. Check the state of Istio CR to verify if Istio was installed successfully:

   ```bash
   kubectl get -n kyma-system istios/default
   ```

   After successful installation, you get the following output:

   ```bash
   NAME      STATE
   default   Ready
   ```

For more installation options, visit [the installation guide](/docs/contributor/01-00-installation.md).

## Useful links

To learn how to use Kyma Istio Operator, read the documentation in the [`user`](/docs/user) directory.

If you are interested in the detailed documentation of the Kyma Istio Operator's design and technical aspects, check the [`contributor`](/docs/contributor/) directory.

## Contributing

To contribute to this project, follow the general [Kyma project contributing](https://github.com/kyma-project/community/blob/main/docs/contributing/02-contributing.md) guidelines.

Commit message:

Istio module manifests should not deploy kyma-system (#438)
* Remove kyma-system deploy from config
Add create kyma-system ns in make target

* Update README.md

Co-authored-by: Natalia Sitko <80401180+nataliasitko@users.noreply.github.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: Natalia Sitko <80401180+nataliasitko@users.noreply.github.com>

README.md, after:

[![REUSE status](https://api.reuse.software/badge/github.com/kyma-project/istio)](https://api.reuse.software/info/github.com/kyma-project/istio)
# Istio

## What is Istio

<img src="/docs/assets/istio-whitelogo-bluebackground-framed.svg" alt="Istio logo" style="height: 100px; width:100px;"/>

Istio is an open-source service mesh that provides a uniform way to manage, connect, and secure microservices. It helps to manage traffic, enhance security capabilities, and provide telemetry data for understanding service behavior. Read the [Istio documentation](https://istio.io/latest/) to learn more.

## Kyma Istio Operator

Kyma Istio Operator is a component of the Kyma runtime that handles the management and configuration of Istio Service Mesh. Within Kyma Istio Operator, [Istio Controller](/docs/user/00-overview/00-10-overview-istio-controller.md) is responsible for installing, uninstalling, and upgrading Istio.

## Install Kyma Istio Operator and Istio from the latest release

### Prerequisites

- Access to a Kubernetes (v1.24 or higher) cluster
- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/)

### Procedure

1. Create the `kyma-system` namespace:

   ```bash
   kubectl create namespace kyma-system
   ```

2. To install Istio, you must install the latest version of Kyma Istio Operator and Istio CRD first. Run:

   ```bash
   kubectl apply -f https://github.com/kyma-project/istio/releases/latest/download/istio-manager.yaml
   ```

3. To get Istio installed, apply the default Istio CR:

   ```bash
   kubectl apply -f https://github.com/kyma-project/istio/releases/latest/download/istio-default-cr.yaml
   ```

   You should get a result similar to this example:

   ```bash
   istio.operator.kyma-project.io/default created
   ```

4. Check the state of Istio CR to verify if Istio was installed successfully:

   ```bash
   kubectl get -n kyma-system istios/default
   ```

   After successful installation, you get the following output:

   ```bash
   NAME      STATE
   default   Ready
   ```

For more installation options, visit [the installation guide](/docs/contributor/01-00-installation.md).

## Useful links

To learn how to use Kyma Istio Operator, read the documentation in the [`user`](/docs/user) directory.

If you are interested in the detailed documentation of the Kyma Istio Operator's design and technical aspects, check the [`contributor`](/docs/contributor) directory.

## Contributing

To contribute to this project, follow the general [Kyma project contributing](https://github.com/kyma-project/community/blob/main/docs/contributing/02-contributing.md) guidelines.
