docs/user/00-40-overview-istio-setup.md, before:

# Default Istio setup

This document provides an overview of the default setup for Istio. Kyma Istio Operator uses the [Istio library](https://github.com/istio/istio/tree/master/operator) for installing Istio. Within Kyma Istio Operator, components like Istiod (Pilot) and Ingress Gateway are enabled by default.


## Istio component-specific configuration

These configuration changes are applied to customize Istio:

- Both [Istio control plane and data plane](https://istio.io/latest/docs/ops/deployment/architecture/) use distroless images. To learn more, read about [Harden Docker Container Images](https://istio.io/latest/docs/ops/configuration/security/harden-docker-images/).
- Automatic sidecar injection is disabled by default. See how to [enable sidecar proxy injection](./operation-guides/02-20-enable-sidecar-injection.md).
- Resource requests and limits for Istio sidecars are modified to best suit the needs of the evaluation and production profiles.
- [Mutual TLS (mTLS)](https://istio.io/docs/concepts/security/#mutual-tls-authentication) is enabled cluster-wide in the `STRICT` mode.
- Ingress Gateway is expanded to handle ports `80`, `443`, and `31400` for local Kyma deployments.
- The use of HTTP 1.0 is enabled in the outbound HTTP listeners by the `PILOT_HTTP10` flag set in the Istiod component environment variables.
- The [Istio custom resource (CR)](./custom-resources/04-00-istio-custom-resource.md) defines the kind of data used to manage Istio.
- No Egress limitations are implemented - all applications deployed in the Kyma cluster can access outside resources without limitations.

Commit message:

change the info about ports

docs/user/00-40-overview-istio-setup.md, after:

# Default Istio setup

This document provides an overview of the default setup for Istio. Kyma Istio Operator uses the [Istio library](https://github.com/istio/istio/tree/master/operator) for installing Istio. Within Kyma Istio Operator, components like Istiod (Pilot) and Ingress Gateway are enabled by default.


## Istio component-specific configuration

These configuration changes are applied to customize Istio:

- Both [Istio control plane and data plane](https://istio.io/latest/docs/ops/deployment/architecture/) use distroless images. To learn more, read about [Harden Docker Container Images](https://istio.io/latest/docs/ops/configuration/security/harden-docker-images/).
- Automatic sidecar injection is disabled by default. See how to [enable sidecar proxy injection](./operation-guides/02-20-enable-sidecar-injection.md).
- Resource requests and limits for Istio sidecars are modified to best suit the needs of the evaluation and production profiles.
- [Mutual TLS (mTLS)](https://istio.io/docs/concepts/security/#mutual-tls-authentication) is enabled cluster-wide in the `STRICT` mode.
- Ingress Gateway is expanded to handle HTTPS requests on port `443`. It redirects HTTP requests to HTTPS on port `80`.
- The use of HTTP 1.0 is enabled in the outbound HTTP listeners by the `PILOT_HTTP10` flag set in the Istiod component environment variables.
- The [Istio custom resource (CR)](./custom-resources/04-00-istio-custom-resource.md) defines the kind of data used to manage Istio.
- No Egress limitations are implemented - all applications deployed in the Kyma cluster can access outside resources without limitations.
