docs/user/04-00-istio-custom-resource.md, before:

# Istio Custom Resource

The `istios.operator.kyma-project.io` CustomResourceDefinition (CRD) describes the kind and the format of data that Istio Controller uses to configure, update, and manage the Istio installation. Applying the CR triggers the installation of Istio, and deleting it triggers the uninstallation of Istio. The default Istio CR has the name `default`.

To get the up-to-date CRD in the `yaml` format, run the following command:

```shell
kubectl get crd istios.operator.kyma-project.io -o yaml
```

You are only allowed to use one Istio CR, which you must create in the `kyma-system` namespace. If the namespace contains multiple Istio CRs, the oldest one reconciles the module. Any additional Istio CR is placed in the `Error` state.

## Specification

This table lists all the possible parameters of the given resource together with their descriptions:

**Spec:**

| Parameter                                               | Type      | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
|---------------------------------------------------------|-----------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **components.cni**                                      | object    | Defines component configuration for Istio CNI DaemonSet.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| **components.cni.k8s.affinity**                         | object    | Affinity is a group of affinity scheduling rules. To learn more, read about affininty in the [Istio documentation](https://istio.io/latest/docs/reference/config/istio.operator.v1alpha1/#Affinity).                                                                                                                                        |
| **components.cni.k8s.resources**                        | object    | Defines [Kubernetes resources requests and limits configuration](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/). For more information, read about Resources in the [Istio documentation](https://istio.io/latest/docs/reference/config/istio.operator.v1alpha1/#Resources ).                               |
| **components.ingressGateway**                           | object    | Defines component configurations for Istio Ingress Gateway.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| **components.ingressGateway.k8s.hpaSpec**               | object    | Defines configuration for HorizontalPodAutoscaler.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| **components.ingressGateway.k8s.hpaSpec.maxReplicas**   | integer   | Specifies the upper limit for the number of Pods that can be set by the autoscaler. It cannot be smaller than **MinReplicas**.                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| **components.ingressGateway.k8s.hpaSpec.minReplicas**   | integer   | Specifies the lower limit for the number of replicas to which the autoscaler can scale down. By default, it is set to 1 Pod. The value can be set to 0 if the alpha feature gate `HPAScaleToZero` is enabled and at least one Object or External metric is configured. Scaling is active as long as at least one metric value is available. |
| **components.ingressGateway.k8s.resources**             | object    | Defines [Kubernetes resources requests and limits configuration](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/). To learn more, read the [Istio documentation](https://istio.io/latest/docs/reference/config/istio.operator.v1alpha1/#Resources).                                                          |
| **components.ingressGateway.k8s.strategy**              | object    | Defines the rolling update strategy. To learn more, read about DeploymentStrategy in the [Istio documentation](https://istio.io/latest/docs/reference/config/istio.operator.v1alpha1/#DeploymentStrategy).                                                                                                                                  |
| **components.pilot**                                    | object    | Defines component configuration for Istiod.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| **components.pilot.k8s.hpaSpec**                        | object    | Defines configuration for HorizontalPodAutoscaler.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| **components.pilot.k8s.hpaSpec.maxReplicas**            | integer   | Specifies the upper limit for the number of Pods that can be set by the autoscaler. It cannot be smaller than **MinReplicas**.                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| **components.pilot.k8s.hpaSpec.minReplicas**            | integer   | Specifies the lower limit for the number of replicas to which the autoscaler can scale down. By default, it is set to 1 Pod. The value can be set to 0 if the alpha feature gate `HPAScaleToZero` is enabled and at least one Object or External metric is configured. Scaling is active as long as at least one metric value is available. |
| **components.pilot.k8s.resources**                      | object    | Defines [Kubernetes resources requests and limits configuration](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/). For more information, read about Resources in the [Istio documentation](https://istio.io/latest/docs/reference/config/istio.operator.v1alpha1/#Resources).                                |
| **components.pilot.k8s.strategy**                       | object    | Defines the rolling update strategy. To learn more, read about DeploymentStrategy in the [Istio documentation](https://istio.io/latest/docs/reference/config/istio.operator.v1alpha1/#DeploymentStrategy).                                                                                                                                  |
| **components.proxy**                                    | object    | Defines component configuration for the Istio proxy sidecar.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| **components.proxy.k8s.resources**                      | object    | Defines [Kubernetes resources requests and limits configuration](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/). To learn more, read about Resources in the [Istio documnetation](https://istio.io/latest/docs/reference/config/istio.operator.v1alpha1/#Resources).                                       |
| **config**                                              | object    | Specifies the configuration for the Istio installation.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| **config.numTrustedProxies**                            | integer   | Specifies the number of trusted proxies deployed in front of the Istio gateway proxy.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |

**Status:**

| Parameter            | Type   | Description                                                                                                                        |
|----------------------|--------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **state** (required) | string | Signifies the current state of **CustomObject**. Its value can be either `Ready`, `Processing`, `Error`, `Warning`, or `Deleting`. |

Commit message:

Istio Status Conditions (#520)
* Istio Status conditions

* State commit

* Fix unit test

* Add basic integration test for checking conditions

* State push

* State push

* State

* Status unit tests

* State

* Update

* Fix lint

* State

* Update 2

* State

* todo

* State

* Fix

* installation unit tests

* Int test check

* State

* State

* State

* Final touches

* Fix sidecars proxy resetter init

* Update

* Add release notes

* Separate status and condition update funcs

* Update docs/user/04-00-istio-custom-resource.md

Co-authored-by: Natalia Sitko <80401180+nataliasitko@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update docs/user/04-00-istio-custom-resource.md

Co-authored-by: Natalia Sitko <80401180+nataliasitko@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update docs/user/04-00-istio-custom-resource.md

Co-authored-by: Natalia Sitko <80401180+nataliasitko@users.noreply.github.com>

* Fix lint

* Fix add/remove finalizers

* Refactor finalizers handling

* Omit code dup

* Fix conditions on istio reconcile path

---------

Co-authored-by: Patryk Strugacz <patryk.strugacz@sap.com>
Co-authored-by: Natalia Sitko <80401180+nataliasitko@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/user/04-00-istio-custom-resource.md, after:

# Istio Custom Resource

The `istios.operator.kyma-project.io` CustomResourceDefinition (CRD) describes the kind and the format of data that Istio Controller uses to configure, update, and manage the Istio installation. Applying the CR triggers the installation of Istio, and deleting it triggers the uninstallation of Istio. The default Istio CR has the name `default`.

To get the up-to-date CRD in the `yaml` format, run the following command:

```shell
kubectl get crd istios.operator.kyma-project.io -o yaml
```

You are only allowed to use one Istio CR, which you must create in the `kyma-system` namespace. If the namespace contains multiple Istio CRs, the oldest one reconciles the module. Any additional Istio CR is placed in the `Error` state.

## Specification

This table lists all the possible parameters of the given resource together with their descriptions:

**Spec:**

| Parameter                                               | Type      | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
|---------------------------------------------------------|-----------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **components.cni**                                      | object    | Defines component configuration for Istio CNI DaemonSet.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| **components.cni.k8s.affinity**                         | object    | Affinity is a group of affinity scheduling rules. To learn more, read about affininty in the [Istio documentation](https://istio.io/latest/docs/reference/config/istio.operator.v1alpha1/#Affinity).                                                                                                                                        |
| **components.cni.k8s.resources**                        | object    | Defines [Kubernetes resources requests and limits configuration](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/). For more information, read about Resources in the [Istio documentation](https://istio.io/latest/docs/reference/config/istio.operator.v1alpha1/#Resources ).                               |
| **components.ingressGateway**                           | object    | Defines component configurations for Istio Ingress Gateway.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| **components.ingressGateway.k8s.hpaSpec**               | object    | Defines configuration for HorizontalPodAutoscaler.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| **components.ingressGateway.k8s.hpaSpec.maxReplicas**   | integer   | Specifies the upper limit for the number of Pods that can be set by the autoscaler. It cannot be smaller than **MinReplicas**.                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| **components.ingressGateway.k8s.hpaSpec.minReplicas**   | integer   | Specifies the lower limit for the number of replicas to which the autoscaler can scale down. By default, it is set to 1 Pod. The value can be set to 0 if the alpha feature gate `HPAScaleToZero` is enabled and at least one Object or External metric is configured. Scaling is active as long as at least one metric value is available. |
| **components.ingressGateway.k8s.resources**             | object    | Defines [Kubernetes resources requests and limits configuration](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/). To learn more, read the [Istio documentation](https://istio.io/latest/docs/reference/config/istio.operator.v1alpha1/#Resources).                                                          |
| **components.ingressGateway.k8s.strategy**              | object    | Defines the rolling update strategy. To learn more, read about DeploymentStrategy in the [Istio documentation](https://istio.io/latest/docs/reference/config/istio.operator.v1alpha1/#DeploymentStrategy).                                                                                                                                  |
| **components.pilot**                                    | object    | Defines component configuration for Istiod.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| **components.pilot.k8s.hpaSpec**                        | object    | Defines configuration for HorizontalPodAutoscaler.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| **components.pilot.k8s.hpaSpec.maxReplicas**            | integer   | Specifies the upper limit for the number of Pods that can be set by the autoscaler. It cannot be smaller than **MinReplicas**.                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| **components.pilot.k8s.hpaSpec.minReplicas**            | integer   | Specifies the lower limit for the number of replicas to which the autoscaler can scale down. By default, it is set to 1 Pod. The value can be set to 0 if the alpha feature gate `HPAScaleToZero` is enabled and at least one Object or External metric is configured. Scaling is active as long as at least one metric value is available. |
| **components.pilot.k8s.resources**                      | object    | Defines [Kubernetes resources requests and limits configuration](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/). For more information, read about Resources in the [Istio documentation](https://istio.io/latest/docs/reference/config/istio.operator.v1alpha1/#Resources).                                |
| **components.pilot.k8s.strategy**                       | object    | Defines the rolling update strategy. To learn more, read about DeploymentStrategy in the [Istio documentation](https://istio.io/latest/docs/reference/config/istio.operator.v1alpha1/#DeploymentStrategy).                                                                                                                                  |
| **components.proxy**                                    | object    | Defines component configuration for the Istio proxy sidecar.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| **components.proxy.k8s.resources**                      | object    | Defines [Kubernetes resources requests and limits configuration](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/). To learn more, read about Resources in the [Istio documnetation](https://istio.io/latest/docs/reference/config/istio.operator.v1alpha1/#Resources).                                       |
| **config**                                              | object    | Specifies the configuration for the Istio installation.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| **config.numTrustedProxies**                            | integer   | Specifies the number of trusted proxies deployed in front of the Istio gateway proxy.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |

**Status:**

| Parameter            | Type   | Description                                                                                                                        |
|----------------------|--------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **state** (required) | string | Signifies the current state of the CR. Its value can be either `Ready`, `Processing`, `Error`, `Warning`, or `Deleting`. |
| **conditions**  | \[\]object | Represents the current state of the CR's conditions. |
| **conditions.&#x200b;lastTransitionTime**  | string | Defines the date of the last condition status change. |
| **conditions.&#x200b;message**  | string | Provides more details about the condition status change. |
| **conditions.&#x200b;reason**  | string | Defines the reason for the condition status change. |
| **conditions.&#x200b;status** (required) | string | Represents the status of the condition. The value is either `True`, `False`, or `Unknown`. |
| **conditions.&#x200b;type**  | string | Provides a short description of the condition. |
