docs/user/02-operation-guides/troubleshooting/03-50-recovering-from-unintentional-istio-removal.md, before:

# Istio unintentionally removed
Follow the steps outlined in this troubleshooting guide if you unintentionally deleted Istio and want to restore the system to its normal state without losing any user-created resources. However, if you intended to delete Istio, the symptoms described in this document are expected and you must clean up the orphaned resources by yourself.

## Symptom

* The Istio custom resource (CR) is in the `WARNING` state.


### Typical log output / error messages

```
kubectl get istio -n kyma-system
NAME      STATE
default   Warning
```
```
kubectl get istio default -n kyma-system -o jsonpath='{.status.description}'
Resources blocking deletion: DestinationRule:kyma-system/api-gateway-metrics;DestinationRule:kyma-system/eventing-nats;PeerAuthentication:kyma-system/eventing-controller-metrics;PeerAuthentication:kyma-system/eventing-publisher-proxy-metrics
```

## Cause

- Istio wasn't completely removed because the user's CRs still exist.

For example, the issue occurs when you delete Istio, but there are still `VirtualService` resources that either belong to the user or were installed by another Kyma component or module. In such cases, the hooked finalizer pauses the deletion of Istio until you remove all the related resources. This [blocking deletion strategy](https://github.com/kyma-project/community/issues/765) is intentionally designed and is enabled by default for Kyma Istio Operator.


## Remedy

 1. Edit the Istio CR and remove the finalizer.
```
  kubectl edit istio -n kyma-system default
  ```
  ```diff
  apiVersion: operator.kyma-project.io/v1alpha1
  kind: Istio
  metadata:
  < finalizers:
  < - istios.operator.kyma-project.io/istio-installation
    generation: 2
    name: default
    namespace: kyma-system
  spec:
    ...
  status:
    description: 'Resources blocking deletion: DestinationRule:kyma-system/api-gateway-metrics;DestinationRule:kyma-system/eventing-nats;PeerAuthentication:kyma-system/eventing-controller-metrics;PeerAuthentication:kyma-system/eventing-publisher-proxy-metrics'
    state: Warning
```
 2. When the finalizer is removed, the Istio CR is deleted. Other resources, such as the `istiod` deployment, remain on the cluster.

 3. Reapply the Istio CR to install Istio once again.

By completing the steps, the Kyma Istio Operator's reconciliation is triggered again. The Istio CR should return to the `READY` state within a few seconds.

Commit message:

Added more context to warning information and adapt troubleshooting guide (#379)

docs/user/02-operation-guides/troubleshooting/03-50-recovering-from-unintentional-istio-removal.md, after:

# Istio unintentionally removed
Follow the steps outlined in this troubleshooting guide if you unintentionally deleted Istio and want to restore the system to its normal state without losing any user-created resources. However, if you intended to delete Istio, the symptoms described in this document are expected and you must clean up the orphaned resources by yourself.

## Symptom

* The Istio custom resource (CR) is in the `WARNING` state.


### Typical log output / error messages

```
kubectl get istio -n kyma-system
NAME      STATE
default   Warning
```
```
kubectl get istio default -n kyma-system -o jsonpath='{.status.description}'
There are Istio resources that block deletion. Please take a look at kyma-system/istio-controller-manager logs to see more information about the warning
```

## Cause

- Istio wasn't completely removed because the user's CRs still exist.

For example, the issue occurs when you delete Istio, but there are still `VirtualService` resources that either belong to the user or were installed by another Kyma component or module. In such cases, the hooked finalizer pauses the deletion of Istio until you remove all the related resources. This [blocking deletion strategy](https://github.com/kyma-project/community/issues/765) is intentionally designed and is enabled by default for Kyma Istio Operator.


## Remedy

 1. Edit the Istio CR and remove the finalizer.
```
  kubectl edit istio -n kyma-system default
  ```
  ```diff
  apiVersion: operator.kyma-project.io/v1alpha1
  kind: Istio
  metadata:
  < finalizers:
  < - istios.operator.kyma-project.io/istio-installation
    generation: 2
    name: default
    namespace: kyma-system
  spec:
    ...
  status:
    description: 'There are Istio resources that block deletion. Please take a look at kyma-system/istio-controller-manager logs to see more information about the warning'
    state: Warning
```
 2. When the finalizer is removed, the Istio CR is deleted. Other resources, such as the `istiod` deployment, remain on the cluster.

 3. Reapply the Istio CR to install Istio once again.

By completing the steps, the Kyma Istio Operator's reconciliation is triggered again. The Istio CR should return to the `READY` state within a few seconds.
