docs/contributor/01-00-installation.md, before:

# Install Istio

## Prerequisites

- Access to a Kubernetes cluster (you can use [k3d](https://k3d.io/v5.5.1/))
- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/)
- [kubebuilder](https://book.kubebuilder.io/)
- [Docker](https://www.docker.com)
- [Kyma CLI](https://github.com/kyma-project/cli/blob/main/README.md#installation)

## Install Kyma Istio Operator Manually

1. Clone the project.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/kyma-project/istio.git && cd istio
```

1. Set the Istio Operator image name.

```bash
export IMG=istio-operator:0.0.1
export K3D_CLUSTER_NAME=kyma
```

3. Provision the k3d cluster.

```bash
kyma provision k3d
```
>**TIP:** To verify the correctness of the project, build it using the `make build` command.

4. Build the image.

```bash
make docker-build
```

5. Push the image to the registry.

<div tabs name="Push image" group="istio-operator-installation">
  <details>
  <summary label="k3d">
  k3d
  </summary>

   ```bash
   k3d image import $IMG -c $K3D_CLUSTER_NAME
   ```

  </details>
  <details>
  <summary label="Docker registry">
  Globally available Docker registry
  </summary>

   ```bash
   make docker-push
   ```

  </details>
</div>

6. Deploy Istio Operator.

```bash
make deploy
```

### Use Kyma Istio Operator to Install or Uninstall Istio

- Install Istio in your cluster.

```bash
kubectl apply -f config/samples/operator_v1alpha2_istio.yaml
```

- Delete Istio from your cluster.

```bash
kubectl delete -f config/samples/operator_v1alpha2_istio.yaml
```

Commit message:

Cherrypick support for experimental manager build (#743)
* Extend workflows to support experimental manager (#731)

* Add build arg for go build tags to Dockerfile

* Add make target and job for testing experimental tag

* Extend publish_assets.sh to publish yaml for experimental istio manager

* Add docs about building and installing experimental image

* Add section for experimental features in the release notes template

* Add new jobs to CI/CD documentation

* Add job to wait for experimental build on release

* Rename job and add missing job to CI/CD docs

* Fix UI test workflow name

(cherry picked from commit 35238514fb01ba5254f7b6abfd254a1e76df9c82)

* Add permalinks for newly added CI/CD jobs (#740)

* Add permalinks for newly added CI/CD jobs

* Update docs/contributor/04-30-ci-cd.md

Co-authored-by: Natalia Sitko <80401180+nataliasitko@users.noreply.github.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: Natalia Sitko <80401180+nataliasitko@users.noreply.github.com>
(cherry picked from commit ff06cc7aa31e23ff8f791bc009f1e859e39d6f79)

* Improve UI tests (#723)

* Change UI tests to Typescript. Restructure and simplify tests to make them more reliable and easier to adapt.

* Add wait after namespace creation to avoid flakiness in tests

* Simplify validation for AP action

(cherry picked from commit 5411fcb9b663baff436be01d4e2a2ed766bb3144)

docs/contributor/01-00-installation.md, after:

# Install Istio

## Prerequisites

- Access to a Kubernetes cluster (you can use [k3d](https://k3d.io/v5.5.1/))
- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/)
- [kubebuilder](https://book.kubebuilder.io/)
- [Docker](https://www.docker.com)
- [Kyma CLI](https://github.com/kyma-project/cli/blob/main/README.md#installation)

## Install Kyma Istio Operator Manually

1. Clone the project.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/kyma-project/istio.git && cd istio
```

2. Set the Istio Operator image name.

```bash
export IMG=istio-operator:0.0.1
export K3D_CLUSTER_NAME=kyma
```

3. Provision the k3d cluster.

```bash
kyma provision k3d
```
>**TIP:** To verify the correctness of the project, build it using the `make build` command.

4. Build the image.

Run:
```bash
make docker-build
```

To build the experimental image, run:
```bash
make docker-build-experimental
```

5. Push the image to the registry.

<div tabs name="Push image" group="istio-operator-installation">
  <details>
  <summary label="k3d">
  k3d
  </summary>

   ```bash
   k3d image import $IMG -c $K3D_CLUSTER_NAME
   ```

  </details>
  <details>
  <summary label="Docker registry">
  Globally available Docker registry
  </summary>

   ```bash
   make docker-push
   ```

  </details>
</div>

6. Deploy Istio Operator.

```bash
make deploy
```

### Use Kyma Istio Operator to Install or Uninstall Istio

- Install Istio in your cluster.

```bash
kubectl apply -f config/samples/operator_v1alpha2_istio.yaml
```

- Delete Istio from your cluster.

```bash
kubectl delete -f config/samples/operator_v1alpha2_istio.yaml
```
