docs/contributor/04-30-ci-cd.md, before:

# CI/CD
The Istio module contains several pipelines that run on pull requests, on the main branch, on the release branch, and periodically. They perform various tasks such as running a linter, executing unit tests with code coverage, generating artifacts for development and production purposes, and running integration tests. The integration tests ensure the functional correctness of Istio Operator and verify if upgrading to the new version of Istio Operator is possible.

## Pipelines running on pull requests

The following CI jobs are part of the development cycle.

| Name                                                                                                                                                                    | Description                                                                                                                                     |
|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [`Wait for image build`](https://github.com/kyma-project/istio/blob/main/.github/workflows/pull-integration.yaml#L22)                                                   | Waits for the operator's image build to finish so that the image-dependent jobs can be executed.                                                       |
| [`pull-istio-operator-build`](https://github.com/kyma-project/test-infra/blob/main/prow/jobs/istio/istio-manager.yaml#L51)                                              | Builds Istio Operator's image and pushes it to the `dev` registry.                                                                                |
| [`pull-istio-module-build`](https://github.com/kyma-project/test-infra/blob/main/prow/jobs/istio/istio-manager.yaml#L6)                                                 | Builds ModuleTemplate for the Istio module and pushes it to the `dev` registry.                                                                   |
| [`pull-istio-integration`](https://github.com/kyma-project/test-infra/blob/main/prow/jobs/istio/istio-integration.yaml#L3)                                              | Executes the main integration test suite for the Istio module on a k3d cluster.                                                                       |
| [`pull-istio-integration-evaluation`](https://github.com/kyma-project/test-infra/blob/main/prow/jobs/istio/istio-integration.yaml#L44)                                  | Executes the main integration test suite for the Istio module in the evaluation profile on a k3d cluster.                                                 |
| [`pull-istio-operator-integration-gcp`](https://github.com/kyma-project/test-infra/blob/main/prow/jobs/istio/istio-manager.yaml#L102)                                   | Executes the main integration test suite for the Istio module on a Gardener GCP cluster.                                                              |
| [`pre-istio-presubmit-scanner`](https://github.com/kyma-project/test-infra/blob/main/prow/jobs/test-infra/presubmit-scanner.yaml#L470)                                  | Runs the Gitleaks presubmit scanner to detect any sensitive data that might have been committed.                                                                              |
| [`Pull Request integration tests / Kubernetes version compatibility test`](https://github.com/kyma-project/istio/blob/main/.github/workflows/pull-integration.yaml#L33) | Executes the basic integration test suite for the Istio module and checks if any incompatibilities occurred during the execution.                       |
| [`Pull Request integration tests / Istio upgrade integration test`](https://github.com/kyma-project/istio/blob/main/.github/workflows/pull-integration.yaml#L44)        | Executes the upgrade integration test suite for the Istio module and verifies if the existing release can be successfully upgraded to the new version. |
| [`Pull Request / lint`](https://github.com/kyma-project/istio/blob/main/.github/workflows/pull-request.yaml#L24)                                                        | Performs linting.                                                                                                  |
| [`Pull Request / Run unit tests`](https://github.com/kyma-project/istio/blob/main/.github/workflows/pull-request.yaml#L39)                                              | Runs unit tests with code coverage information.                                                                              |

## Pipelines running on the main branch

The following CI jobs run on the main branch.

| Name                                                                                                                                                      | Description                                                                                                                                 |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [`post-istio-operator-build`](https://github.com/kyma-project/test-infra/blob/main/prow/jobs/istio/istio-manager.yaml#L308)                               | Builds Istio Operator's image and pushes it to the `prod` registry.                                                                           |
| [`post-istio-module-build`](https://github.com/kyma-project/test-infra/blob/main/prow/jobs/istio/istio-manager.yaml#L163)                                 | Builds ModuleTemplate for the Istio module and pushes it to the `prod` registry.                                                              |
| [`post-istio-integration`](https://github.com/kyma-project/test-infra/blob/main/prow/jobs/istio/istio-integration.yaml#L87)                               | Executes the main integration test suite for Istio Manager on a k3d cluster.                                                                      |
| [`main integration tests / Wait for image build`](https://github.com/kyma-project/istio/blob/main/.github/workflows/main-integration.yaml#L20)            | Waits for the operator's image build to finish so that image-dependent jobs can be executed.                                                       |
| [`main integration tests / Istio upgrade integration tests`](https://github.com/kyma-project/istio/blob/main/.github/workflows/main-integration.yaml#L30) | Executes the upgrade integration test suite of Istio Module and verifies if the existing release can be successfully upgraded to the new version. |
| [`main integration tests / Slack Notification`](https://github.com/kyma-project/istio/blob/main/.github/workflows/main-integration.yaml#L42)              | Sends a Slack notification to the team's channel if any pipelines fail on the main branch.                                               |

## Pipelines running on the release branch

The following CI jobs generate release artifacts and verify the functional correctness of Istio Manager.

| Name                                                                                                                        | Description                                                                      |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [`post-istio-integration`](https://github.com/kyma-project/test-infra/blob/main/prow/jobs/istio/istio-integration.yaml#L87) | Executes the main integration test suite for the Istio module on a k3d cluster.            |
| [`rel-istio-build`](https://github.com/kyma-project/test-infra/blob/main/prow/jobs/istio/istio-manager.yaml#L208)           | Builds Istio Operator's image on the release and pushes it to the `prod` registry. |
| [`rel-istio-module-build`](https://github.com/kyma-project/test-infra/blob/main/prow/jobs/istio/istio-manager.yaml#L263)    | Builds Istio ModuleTemplate on the release and pushes it to the `prod` registry. |

## Pipelines running on a schedule

The following CI jobs are scheduled to run at specific times.

| Name                                                                                                                                 | Description                                                                         |
|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [`nightly-istio-performance-test-gcp`](https://github.com/kyma-project/test-infra/blob/main/prow/jobs/istio/istio-manager.yaml#L365) | Runs Istio Manager's performance tests every day at 12:00 AM on a Gardener GCP cluster. |

Commit message:

add folders, remove module mentions (#342)
* add folders, remove module mentions

* correct tha main readme

* fix links

* test docsify

* docsify test

* docsify test

* docsify test

* docsify test

* docsify test

* test docsify

* docsify test

* fix sidebar

* fix readme

* docsify testing

* docs-test

* test docs

* test docsify

* test docsify

* test docu

* replace istio operator with kyma istio operator

* docsify test

* docsify test

* update sidebar

* docsify test

* add sidebar

* sidebars

* docsify test

* fix code rendering

* fix code rendering

* fix links

* fix links

* remove blank spaces

* add relative link

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Iwona Langer <iwona.langer@sap.com>

* apply Iwona's suggestions

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Iwona Langer <iwona.langer@sap.com>

* update the troubleshooting guide

* Apply Andreas's suggestions

* update sidebar

* update sidebars

* replace module's mention

---------

Co-authored-by: Iwona Langer <iwona.langer@sap.com>

docs/contributor/04-30-ci-cd.md, after:

# CI/CD
The Istio module contains several pipelines that run on pull requests, on the main branch, on the release branch, and periodically. They perform various tasks such as running a linter, executing unit tests with code coverage, generating artifacts for development and production purposes, and running integration tests. The integration tests ensure the functional correctness of Kyma Istio Operator and verify if upgrading to the new version of Kyma Istio Operator is possible.

## Pipelines running on pull requests

The following CI jobs are part of the development cycle.

| Name                                                                                                                                                                    | Description                                                                                                                                     |
|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [`Wait for image build`](https://github.com/kyma-project/istio/blob/main/.github/workflows/pull-integration.yaml#L22)                                                   | Waits for the operator's image build to finish so that the image-dependent jobs can be executed.                                                       |
| [`pull-istio-operator-build`](https://github.com/kyma-project/test-infra/blob/main/prow/jobs/istio/istio-manager.yaml#L51)                                              | Builds Kyma Istio Operator's image and pushes it to the `dev` registry.                                                                                |
| [`pull-istio-module-build`](https://github.com/kyma-project/test-infra/blob/main/prow/jobs/istio/istio-manager.yaml#L6)                                                 | Builds ModuleTemplate for the Istio module and pushes it to the `dev` registry.                                                                   |
| [`pull-istio-integration`](https://github.com/kyma-project/test-infra/blob/main/prow/jobs/istio/istio-integration.yaml#L3)                                              | Executes the main integration test suite for the Istio module on a k3d cluster.                                                                       |
| [`pull-istio-integration-evaluation`](https://github.com/kyma-project/test-infra/blob/main/prow/jobs/istio/istio-integration.yaml#L44)                                  | Executes the main integration test suite for the Istio module in the evaluation profile on a k3d cluster.                                                 |
| [`pull-istio-operator-integration-gcp`](https://github.com/kyma-project/test-infra/blob/main/prow/jobs/istio/istio-manager.yaml#L102)                                   | Executes the main integration test suite for the Istio module on a Gardener GCP cluster.                                                              |
| [`pre-istio-presubmit-scanner`](https://github.com/kyma-project/test-infra/blob/main/prow/jobs/test-infra/presubmit-scanner.yaml#L470)                                  | Runs the Gitleaks presubmit scanner to detect any sensitive data that might have been committed.                                                                              |
| [`Pull Request integration tests / Kubernetes version compatibility test`](https://github.com/kyma-project/istio/blob/main/.github/workflows/pull-integration.yaml#L33) | Executes the basic integration test suite for the Istio module and checks if any incompatibilities occurred during the execution.                       |
| [`Pull Request integration tests / Istio upgrade integration test`](https://github.com/kyma-project/istio/blob/main/.github/workflows/pull-integration.yaml#L44)        | Executes the upgrade integration test suite for the Istio module and verifies if the existing release can be successfully upgraded to the new version. |
| [`Pull Request / lint`](https://github.com/kyma-project/istio/blob/main/.github/workflows/pull-request.yaml#L24)                                                        | Performs linting.                                                                                                  |
| [`Pull Request / Run unit tests`](https://github.com/kyma-project/istio/blob/main/.github/workflows/pull-request.yaml#L39)                                              | Runs unit tests with code coverage information.                                                                              |

## Pipelines running on the main branch

The following CI jobs run on the main branch.

| Name                                                                                                                                                      | Description                                                                                                                                 |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [`post-istio-operator-build`](https://github.com/kyma-project/test-infra/blob/main/prow/jobs/istio/istio-manager.yaml#L308)                               | Builds Kyma Istio Operator's image and pushes it to the `prod` registry.                                                                           |
| [`post-istio-module-build`](https://github.com/kyma-project/test-infra/blob/main/prow/jobs/istio/istio-manager.yaml#L163)                                 | Builds ModuleTemplate for the Istio module and pushes it to the `prod` registry.                                                              |
| [`post-istio-integration`](https://github.com/kyma-project/test-infra/blob/main/prow/jobs/istio/istio-integration.yaml#L87)                               | Executes the main integration test suite for Istio Manager on a k3d cluster.                                                                      |
| [`main integration tests / Wait for image build`](https://github.com/kyma-project/istio/blob/main/.github/workflows/main-integration.yaml#L20)            | Waits for the operator's image build to finish so that image-dependent jobs can be executed.                                                       |
| [`main integration tests / Istio upgrade integration tests`](https://github.com/kyma-project/istio/blob/main/.github/workflows/main-integration.yaml#L30) | Executes the upgrade integration test suite of Istio Module and verifies if the existing release can be successfully upgraded to the new version. |
| [`main integration tests / Slack Notification`](https://github.com/kyma-project/istio/blob/main/.github/workflows/main-integration.yaml#L42)              | Sends a Slack notification to the team's channel if any pipelines fail on the main branch.                                               |

## Pipelines running on the release branch

The following CI jobs generate release artifacts and verify the functional correctness of Istio Manager.

| Name                                                                                                                        | Description                                                                      |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [`post-istio-integration`](https://github.com/kyma-project/test-infra/blob/main/prow/jobs/istio/istio-integration.yaml#L87) | Executes the main integration test suite for the Istio module on a k3d cluster.            |
| [`rel-istio-build`](https://github.com/kyma-project/test-infra/blob/main/prow/jobs/istio/istio-manager.yaml#L208)           | Builds Kyma Istio Operator's image on the release and pushes it to the `prod` registry. |
| [`rel-istio-module-build`](https://github.com/kyma-project/test-infra/blob/main/prow/jobs/istio/istio-manager.yaml#L263)    | Builds Istio ModuleTemplate on the release and pushes it to the `prod` registry. |

## Pipelines running on a schedule

The following CI jobs are scheduled to run at specific times.

| Name                                                                                                                                 | Description                                                                         |
|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [`nightly-istio-performance-test-gcp`](https://github.com/kyma-project/test-infra/blob/main/prow/jobs/istio/istio-manager.yaml#L365) | Runs Istio Manager's performance tests every day at 12:00 AM on a Gardener GCP cluster. |
