# Introduction of Vertical Pod Autoscaler (VPA) for Istio controller

## Status
Proposed

## Context
This ADR addresses requirements defined in [kyma-project/istio#1920](https://github.com/kyma-project/istio/issues/1920).
The main goal is to improve the reliability of the Istio controller.

## Decision

Istio operator static resource requirements will be adjusted to ensure that the controller has sufficient resources 
to operate effectively under previously unanticipated load conditions.
We'll apply these new values:
```yaml
resources:
  limits:
    memory: 4Gi
    cpu: "4"
```

A VPA resource will be installed along with the Istio module to adjust 
resource requests and limits based on observed usage.
To maintain backward compatibility with clusters that don’t support VPA, we will conditionally apply the VPA resource only if the VPA CRD is present in the cluster. This allows us to introduce the feature without affecting backward compatibility with clusters that don't support VPA. For example, SAP BTP and Kyma runtime environments created before Gardener introduced VPA support.

The VPA **updateMode** must be set to `InPlaceOrRecreate` to allow for both
recreations and in-place updates once the feature gate for in-place updates is enabled in Kubernetes.
To ensure that the VPA updater can evict the controller Pod when necessary, the **minReplicas** field will be set to `1`.
See the VPA specification:
```yaml
apiVersion: autoscaling.k8s.io/v1
kind: VerticalPodAutoscaler
metadata:
  name: istio-operator-vpa
  namespace: kyma-system
spec:
  resourcePolicy:
    containerPolicies:
    - containerName: manager
      maxAllowed:
        cpu: 10000m
        memory: 16Gi
      minAllowed:
        cpu: 10m
        memory: 64Mi
  targetRef:
    apiVersion: apps/v1
    kind: Deployment
    name: istio-controller-manager
  updatePolicy:
    minReplicas: 1
    updateMode: InPlaceOrRecreate
```

The **minAllowed** values are set according to the currently set `requests`,
while the **maxAllowed** values are set to allow for significant scaling up of resources if needed,
while still providing an upper limit in case of critical issues.

The **GOMEMLIMIT** environment variable is removed from the controller deployment and replaced with a dynamic in-runtime setting.
This is done by importing `github.com/KimMachineGun/automemlimit` library for side effects,
which will set the **GOMEMLIMIT** value to 90% of the memory limit defined in the cgroup for the container.

## Consequences

- Clusters without VPA support will continue to function without any changes, as the VPA resource will simply not be applied.
Istio module limits will become higher on clusters without VPA support.
- On clusters with VPA support, the controller will be able to adjust its resource requests and limits based on observed usage.
This is expected to cause more efficient resource usage on clusters with minimal load,
while still allowing for scaling up resources when needed under higher load conditions.
